What is terraform



- terraform is a open source infrastructure as code or tool. In terraform We can create services or resources using code. In terraform first create a provider file with extension .tf and enter our profile to access the aws resources. we can create services or resorces which we want and then run the command terraform init to initialising and then run command terraform plan to confirm which resources is creating and then run command terraform apply to create the services and resources. terraform also advance version of cloudformation

Difference between gihub and gitlab 




- github and gitlab is both repositry tools.the measure diff in github and gitlab is in github we can direct deploy our cicd pipeline in jenkins and in github we cannot direct deploy cicd pipeline in jenkins. Gitlab is more secure as compair to github . And gitlab has a certificate and github has no certificate.



What is auto scalling  and what is use of auto scalling




-  auto scalling means is hidden in name auto and scalling means sir automatically scale up when more traffic or request come to the our website automatically scale down when deacrease the traffic that  means autoscallling

What is Load Balancer 





- we can create a website or app and our website getting populer then high traffic or requests come to our website or app then our webiste is work slowly if we add load balancer to our app the. Then load balancer balance the load  or distribute the all traffic to help our app work properly


What is docker 



- docker is containerization tool it create a multiple comtainers and run the service which we want. In one container we can run only one service. I am creating three tier project in docker and also using docker compose


What is kubernetes 


- kubernetes is orchastrasion tool it manage the pods and containers.kubernetes is also automation tool we can create n numbers of container.its manage the container auto scalling. Automatically create and delete the containrs using kubernetes.a infrastructure or architecture of kubernetes is cluster is group of workser nodes and master nodes(control plane) in master node have four components which controler manager , scheduler, apiserver and etcd controller manager is manage the current statte and desire state and aslo as per requred pods increase or decrease and scheduler is create the pods. And apiserver is communication between master node and worker node its use to getting or forwarding requests and worker node having three components kubele, kubeproxy, container engine , use of kube is networking assign the ip didferent ip address to the pods which is newly created and kubelet is manage the containers in pods is running or not container engine is docker,rocket, containerd.


what is route 53

Amazon Route 53 is a highly available and scalable Domain Name System (DNS) web service. You can use Route 53 to perform three main functions in any combination: 

1)domain registration
2)DNS routing
3) health checking.
      we can deploy our app using route 53 with ACM aws certificate manager


how to deploy jenkins project cicd pipeline with gitlab



 


